---
title: "ZenUML and Mermaid. Two online graph editor"
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - zenuml
  - mermaid
  - uml
  - flowchart
  - graphviz
  - html
---
I used online graphviz editor to draw graphs using its dot language. Now, I found two other online graphing tools that look very easy to use.  
* [ZenUML](https://app.zenuml.com/) Its language is similar to C++/Java syntax.
* [Mermaid](https://mermaid.live/) Its language is similar to markdown.

I like ZenUML because it's syntax is close to real code. It is easy to learn for a programmer.

I like mermaid because I can embed mermaid code/graph inside Github page.

>Update: (2022-02-14) Github officially supports Mermaid. The method below becomes obsolete. Please read [this](https://github.blog/2022-02-14-include-diagrams-markdown-files-mermaid) to learn the new method.

<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mermaid/dist/mermaid.min.js"></script>
<script>
    mermaid.initialize({ startOnLoad: true });
</script>

Here is one mermaid diagram:
<div class="mermaid">
graph TD
A[Client] --> B[Load Balancer]
B --> C[Server1]
B --> D[Server2]
</div>

I embedded this html code block into this Jekyll post to make the graph above.
```
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mermaid/dist/mermaid.min.js"></script>
<script>
    mermaid.initialize({ startOnLoad: true });
</script>

Here is one mermaid diagram:
<div class="mermaid">
graph TD
A[Client] --> B[Load Balancer]
B --> C[Server1]
B --> D[Server2]
</div>
```

And here is another graph from mermaid website [link](https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/#/examples)

The code is more complicated but the method to embedded the code is the same: Just put it between `<div class="mermaid"> </div>` 

<div class="mermaid">
graph TB
    sq[Square shape] --> ci((Circle shape))

    subgraph A
        od>Odd shape]-- Two line<br/>edge comment --> ro
        di{Diamond with <br/> line break} -.-> ro(Rounded<br>square<br>shape)
        di==>ro2(Rounded square shape)
    end

    %% Notice that no text in shape are added here instead that is appended further down
    e --> od3>Really long text with linebreak<br>in an Odd shape]

    %% Comments after double percent signs
    e((Inner / circle<br>and some odd <br>special characters)) --> f(,.?!+-*ز)

    cyr[Cyrillic]-->cyr2((Circle shape Начало));

     classDef green fill:#9f6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px;
     classDef orange fill:#f96,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px;
     class sq,e green
     class di orange
</div>

Read the other examples on mermaid website. Pie chart is really simple and useful.